الحمد بالله رب العالمين الرحمن الرحيم مالك يوم الدين إياك نعبد وإياك نستعيم إهدن الصراة المستقيم صراة الذين أنعنت عليهم غير المرضوب عليهم
السلام عليكم ورحمة الله وبركاته
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم الحمد لله وحده وصلى الله وسلم وبارك على من لا نبي بعده وعلى آله وأصحابه والتابعين ومن تابعهم بإحسان إلى يوم الدين
بسم الله الرحمن الرحيم
Beloved brothers and sisters in Islam, the nation of the Muslims in Madinah al-Munawwara had been built on the foundations of goodness and piety.
The Masjid had been built, the first one upon piety known as Masjid Quba.
Thereafter the second Masjid to be built was Al-Masjid al-Nabawi or Masjid Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم within Madinah al-Munawwara.
These are the blessed Masjid built by the most blessed of hands, the hands of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم.
He took part in building the Masjid and this is why it is a Sunnah of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
not only to contribute towards the building of Masjid but to take a moment to pick a brick or two up with your own hand and lay it.
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى grant us goodness, this is also the Sunnah of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم.
We are so weak that in our lives we can only fulfill a few of the Sunnah of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم.
Whereas there are hundreds of thousands of Sunnah, we as ordinary human beings would be unable to fulfill all of them
and this is why do not belittle what someone else is doing thinking that you are the only one serving Islam.
Perhaps they are also engaging in a Sunnah and by you saying I am the only one serving Islam,
you would be insulting the Sunnah of Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم which is far broader than just one or two things.
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى grant us a deep understanding of the Deen
and may He make us from amongst those who can support one another.
As we ended off yesterday making mention of the points that Nabi صلى الله عليه وسلم had stressed whilst he was in Majina Munawwara at the beginning.
These were firstly I made mention of the issue of education to the degree that as I said after the war,
after one of the wars, he actually issued an instruction to those who were captive saying that if you can teach ten from amongst us to read and write, we will free you.
This was the importance given to education by Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم and on top of that the importance of a good upbringing,
the importance of good character and conduct, cleansing of the heart, ridding it of hatred, malice, jealousy and so on
and ridding it of any of the bad qualities, this tazkiyah to nafs and meaning purification of the heart,
something very very important that every single one of us needs to consider and needs to engage in in fact because with us we are human beings
and we are not from amongst the Anbiya of Allah سبحانه وتعالى who were protected by Allah سبحانه وتعالى, safeguarded by Allah سبحانه وتعالى.
We are ordinary human beings, Shaytan comes to us and tries to divert us.
So Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم constantly reminded his companions to cleanse their hearts, to remove hatred, to remove malice, jealousy of one another and so on
and above that to love one another and the brotherhood should always remain, these were some of the prime teachings of Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
over and above worshipping Allah سبحانه وتعالى and obeying the instruction of the messenger.
So as this happened, let's take a look at some of the first ahadith of Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم memorized in Al Madinatul Munawwarah.
These were words that came out of his blessed mouth صلى الله عليه وسلم and they were put into practice, they were taken very very seriously.
As I go through these words, remember these are the words that built the nation.
Let's, every one of us, look into ourselves how close or far we are from the same words and we will be able to see whether we are good
or whether we are just from amongst those who pay lip service to the Deen saying that you know I follow Islam but in actual fact we are following something very far from Islam.
So the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم says when he was asked
Which of Islam is the best? Now this question means what is the best thing I could do as a Muslim?
And the answer came several times in different wordings all heading towards one conclusion and every time a different point was raised
And on this occasion he says
He says to feed food to whom? Starting with the poor, those who are poor, those who are in need, those who are hungry.
We will come to another hadith just now inshallah which clarifies this as well from another angle.
Feed food to people, be considerate about people and spread salaam, the greeting as well as peace.
Spread the greeting to those whom you know as well as those whom you don't know.
That's a very important point. Today point number one we lack.
We'll greet but we only greet when there is a maslaha or when there is something for ourselves that we find we might want to gain from this person.
If there is a person down prodden who perhaps we fear he might ask us for a thing or two, we start off by turning away and we don't even greet.
We greet people inshallah because of their wealth. This is what has come nowadays. Sometimes this happens.
We greet people because of their status but we leave those whom perhaps had we greeted them the acceptance from Allah would have been far greater than having greeted the whole community of wealthy people.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala forgive us. So this is the importance of salaam.
To those you know to those you don't know. The fact that they are muslimin they deserve the greeting.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make us from amongst those who understand.
So at that time the muhajireen and ansar they knew that these are from the ansar these are from the muhajireen.
But initially they had to be acquainted with one another and they had to get to know one another.
And this is why salaam was important to everyone. You know them you don't know them you greet them.
They have a link with Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Another hadith he says la yadkhulul jannata man la ya'man ja'uhu bawa'iqa.
Amazing. He will not enter paradise whose neighbors are not protected from his harm.
Amazing. This was building Madina Munawwara so the neighbors were looked towards.
One narration says when you are making some stew add a little bit more in it to give the neighbors.
Subhanallah. With us never mind giving the neighbor something good we give them something bad.
May Allah protect us. It happens. Let us hope that we can be from amongst those who don't do that.
And we can be from amongst those who understand.
The powerful words he will not enter paradise whose neighbor is not safe from his harm because that is your neighbor.
And if each one has to fulfill this the whole community will be people who fulfill the rights of one another because we are all neighbors of someone.
Another narration. Powerful words.
A Muslim is a person whom all the Muslims are protected from the harms of his tongue or his hand.
Look at the powerful words. Today we are in an age of rumor and gossip.
It becomes so juicy that the marination of the chicken that we happen to bribe or to put on the fire barbecue chicken that marination is left one side.
The juiciness of the statements of rumor about our own brothers and sisters is far greater.
In Ramadan in the condition of fast and rumors are flying and Vodacom has made it quite easy to do that.
May Allah protect us. Allah safeguard us. Wallahi we need to be careful.
A true Muslim is he whom all the Muslims are safeguarded from the evil of his tongue and his hand which means physical harm or verbal harm.
Not at all. It goes deeper than that. We are not even supposed to be holding ill feeling in our heart for one another.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
If there is something people are engaged in that is bad we should try and talk to them directly and try and help them and so on.
And if there is something that we cannot do anything about we can at least make a good prayer, feel it in our hearts that this is wrong.
But we don't need to go around spreading tale, rumor and gossip because what happens to a person who spreads rumor it comes back to haunt him at some stage later on.
May Allah protect us. And this is one thing we don't realize.
Sometimes we suffer in life without knowing that it is the result of a rumor we spread about a friend of Allah.
And this thing came back to us to haunt us and our lives are upside down and we don't even know.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us.
These were the building stones of the foundation of this nation and another hadith.
The Prophet salallahu alayhi wa sallam says
None of you are true believers until you love for your brother what you love for yourself.
So you love goodness for yourself you should love it for others.
You want everything to be good for you you should want it for them.
And you should make dua for them or wherever you can and you are able you should help them.
Open the doors for them and Allah will open your doors.
This is why the hadith says
The true believers are like one man.
If his eye is sore his whole body is restless.
If his hand one organ is paining his whole body will be restless.
These are the words of the Prophet Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam.
In another narration of a similar meaning he says
A believer his relation with another believer is like that of a wall of a building.
Each brick strengthens the other.
Without one you find the whole wall or the whole building is weak.
So we need to hold each other up and we need to make sure we stand as a wall as a building.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
Then he says
In one narration he says
Do not be jealous of one another.
Do not hold hatred against one another.
Don't turn away from one another.
These are the building stones of the foundation.
The building stones within the nation of Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wa sallam.
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to grant us acceptance.
And he says you should be brothers for the sake of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Worshippers of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Then something very important he says
Whoever spends time is spending time helping his brother.
Allah will be helping him for that period of time.
And another narration
Allah continues to help a person for as long as that person is engaged in helping his brother.
Subhanallah.
Look at this.
So people began to help one another.
They loved one another.
They opened their doors for one another.
They were feeding one another.
They had a good feeling for one another.
When they had problems or crises they would resolve it immediately.
The hadith continues to say
Whoever removes a Muslim from a difficulty of the dunya
Allah will remove him from the difficulty of the akhirah and the day of judgement when he needs it more.
Subhanallah.
We sometimes create problems for people.
Forget about removing them.
It's a fact.
This is why you find degradation of the nation.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us.
Then he says
Whoever covers the faults of a Muslim, of a believer
Allah will cover his faults on the day of judgement.
Look at this.
Today we each to expose people.
Because that is the western thinking, the idea.
The minute you see something, announce it to the world.
Go to the press.
Tell the whole world.
That is the western idea that everyone should know everything about every single person.
So what happens?
The world continues looking at them with an evil eye.
And who are they to judge?
Allahu akbar.
Whereas the Islamic teaching is
You see something wrong.
You don't go and expose.
You resolve the matter.
If you love a person, see something wrong.
You don't go and start telling the whole world.
You go to them and you say
My brother, this is something that was wrong.
Please rectify it.
I am your brother.
I care for you.
And then if the whole world sees something wrong,
You don't go and start telling the whole world.
You go to them and you say
My brother, this is something that was wrong.
Please rectify it.
And then if the person rectifies it,
You are brothers in Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala's love.
And the two of you will be resurrected together
As those who love each other for the sake of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Granted a special place on the day of Qiyamah, the day of judgment.
So this is of extreme importance and we learn a lot from it.
And we learn how today we have different thinking
Because of the environment we live in
And we have this love of exposure of people
And we think that there is goodness in it
Not realizing that if Allah were to expose us,
None of us would be seated here this evening.
Allah akbar
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala forgive us
And may He cover us in the dunya as well as in the akhirah.
Then He says the powerful words
Irhamu man fil ardi
Yarhamkum man fil sama
Have mercy upon those on earth
And the one in the skies will have mercy upon you
Meaning Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala will have mercy upon you.
Imagine these words.
The Jewish people are listening to them.
The mushriks are listening to them.
And at the time of Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
The ansar and muhajireen are learning from them.
And they become merciful, compassionate.
Their hearts open up and soften up at the same time.
Then He says a mu'min is not one who eats to his fill
Whilst his neighbor is hungry.
Look at that.
Words of Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
Then He says
One of the levels of Iman
Is to remove a harmful object from the path of people.
Amazing.
You drive your vehicle, you notice a brick in the middle of the road
Between you and Allah
If you were to stop your vehicle, ensuring safety obviously
And you were to spend a moment to remove that brick
Solely between you and Allah
It's a sign of Iman and belief in your maker.
Because you would not like fellow human beings
To be harmed by something you saw.
Perhaps they may not see it.
May Allah sallallahu alaihi wa sallam grant us protection.
And in this way you may never know
How many times you were saved from being harmed
By something on the path because of others
Before you who removed the object.
Before you even came here.
Allahu Akbar
May Allah sallallahu alaihi wa sallam grant us goodness.
And this is why the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam says
Be careful.
Be careful of those two types of people who are cursed.
Who are they O Messenger sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
He says
The one who relieves himself
Upon the path of people.
Where people walk, they relieve themselves there.
So now there is a stench and a smell, they are cursed.
These are cursed by the people who walk.
And at the same time, the others who relieve themselves
In the resting places of people.
The shade where people might take a bit of rest.
And you find you go into the shade and you want to be busy.
You know you want to lay your picnic for example.
And there you have a human being before you
Who has just relieved himself.
The Messenger sallallahu alaihi wa sallam warns us.
Imagine today we speak of environmental cleanliness
And pollution and so on.
These were beautiful teachings of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
The basics.
And this is what community is based upon.
Cleanliness and compassion
And the feeling for one another.
And this is why he says
Any Muslim who has clothed another Muslim
Who did not have clothing.
Allah will grant them a special clothing
On the day of Qiyamah and in paradise.
Subhanallah.
It means people who are without clothes.
People who don't have something to cloth themselves.
If you help them, you get a special clothing
From Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
And anyone who feeds another
Who is hungry.
Allah will feed them
From the food of Jannah.
Subhanallah.
The food of paradise.
So this is not just feeding the wealthy.
This hadith is specifically
Feeding those who do not have food.
Look for them.
Hunt for them.
Go and give them
And Allah prepares for you food.
Subhanallah.
And the last part of that hadith it says
And whosoever quenches the thirst.
Whosoever quenches the thirst of a person
Who is thirsty.
Who doesn't have that drink.
And whosoever quenches them.
Allah will grant them a drink.
From what is known as
Al-Rahiq Al-Makhtoom.
Which is the sealed nectar.
Special drink of paradise.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant that to us.
So these are some of the beautiful narrations
That were the building point of the nation.
In Madinatul Munawwara.
Over and above the treaties.
And the various agreements
That we spoke about yesterday.
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
To help us.
Realize and look into these hadith.
And many more.
And ask ourselves.
How close or far am I
From these teachings of Islam?
And if I am far.
What am I going to do about it?
Remember as I always say.
This is the month of Ramadan.
We have a few more days.
We have already passed the half way mark.
If you look at it carefully.
And when we exit Ramadan.
Are we going to be from amongst those who exited
Without having taken anything from it.
With us as we exit.
So every goodness we leave it in Ramadan
And we walk out.
What was the point?
We'd rather have the month of Ramadan.
If it has changed us.
And it has woken us up.
And it has made us develop our good qualities.
And it has made us eradicate our bad qualities.
Then we have achieved from the month of Ramadan.
If not.
We have just wasted our time fasting.
And standing in Salah.
As the narration says.
How many people who fast.
They achieve nothing.
Besides hunger and thirst from the fast.
How many people who stand at night in prayer.
They achieve nothing.
Besides getting tired.
And staying awake.
May Allah not make us from those.
May Allah open our doors.
Let us get back to the situation.
In Madinatul Munawwara.
Now Quraish.
They started understanding.
And realizing what has happened.
Makkatul Mukarrama was empty.
They had no one to poke.
Basically they had no one to harm.
They had no one to actually make life difficult for.
So what did they do?
They wrote a letter.
Who should they write to?
Because now the leader of Madinatul Munawwara.
Is Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
If you recall.
We made mention of a man.
Who was about to be appointed as the leader.
His name was Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salool.
Quraish wrote a letter to him.
And told him few words.
That look.
You have given asylum to a wanted man.
Who is wanted by us.
If you do not hand him over to us.
We are coming with a huge army to wipe you out.
Basically these were the words.
We are coming with a huge army.
We are going to fight your men.
And we are going to enslave and capture your women.
That's what we are going to do.
So when Salool got this letter.
He was very happy in a way.
Because to him he said.
Let me make a big noise about it.
So that I can get Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam out.
So that I can be the leader once again.
But as soon as he started making a noise.
Within certain circles.
Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
Being informed by Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala.
What did he do?
He got up and went to Salool and his people.
And said.
You have overreacted regarding the letter that came from Quraish.
You have overreacted.
Do not overreact to it.
This teaches us a lesson.
Sometimes something small.
We don't understand.
We overreact.
We get very excited about things.
So we make a mountain as I always say.
From a little mole hill.
A big mountain.
And yet.
If we had asked those who had had knowledge.
And we asked those with experience.
They would tell you.
Brother just ignore this.
Don't worry.
It's minor.
It's small.
Just leave it.
Allahu Akbar.
We have to face negativity in life.
No one can say.
I have a smooth life with no negativity.
Because then.
What was the point of Jannah?
Paradise.
Paradise is going to be a place where there will only be.
Positives.
No negatives.
If the worldly life was the same.
Then what was the point of going to paradise?
May Allah SWT grant us a deeper understanding.
And so when they wrote this letter.
And Muhammad SAW then.
Reacted upon the reaction of Salool.
Things started coming down.
But the whispering was still on.
No you see these people are going to come and attack us.
In the meantime.
Something else had happened.
Sa'ad Ibn Mu'al.
Who was one of the leaders of Al-Aws.
As we have made mention of.
And a Sahabi.
He went for Umrah.
And this was the habit of the people at the time.
Now this man had gone to Makkah Al-Mukarrama.
And he was a Muslim.
When he went there.
Abu Jahl.
In fact he stayed with Umayyah Ibn Khalaf.
That was the person whom he stayed with.
And Umayyah Ibn Khalaf.
These people used to pass Medina Munawwara.
On their way to Al-Sham.
To the northern Arabian region.
And when they used to take their caravans.
They used to pass Medina Munawwara.
And wait for a while.
And thereafter.
When Sa'ad Ibn Mu'al went to Makkah Al-Mukarrama.
As he is making Tawaf.
Abu Jahl asks him.
Or asks Umayyah Ibn Khalaf.
Who is this man?
He says this is Sa'ad.
Sa'ad meaning the one from Yathrib.
The one from Medina.
He says.
If you were not with this man.
I would have stopped you and blocked you.
You would not have returned back to your people.
You have given asylum to a wanted man.
Look at the same statement from the same people.
Coming again to a different person.
You have given asylum to a wanted man.
You have given him a base.
And you are protecting a person who is wanted.
We would block you and stop you.
At this point.
Sa'ad Ibn Mu'az said very loudly.
If you try to do anything.
You will be blocked.
From going up to Ash-Sham.
All your caravans.
We will stop them.
Block them.
And you will have to go back.
Your trade route will be over.
Closed.
Your business gone.
Now they were worried.
They had to keep quiet once again.
But they knew that now.
The Mushriks of Makkah are preparing war.
Against the believers who are in Medina Munawwara.
There were many still in Makkah.
And the Mu'mineen.
They were not so many.
There was a head count done.
Of the people who were able to participate in war.
If war broke out.
And 1500 men were counted.
At that time in Medina Munawwara.
So that was the population of the men.
And the boys or should I say the young men.
And the older people who were fit to fight.
1500 people.
And so Quraish knew that they had large numbers.
But Subhanallah.
Whilst they were preparing.
On this side Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
Was visiting different tribes.
And he was visiting different areas.
Around Medina Munawwara.
Signing treaties with the people.
To say look we are the Muslims.
We are a nation.
New nation.
We are going to protect you.
If anything happens to you.
And if an army comes to attack us.
We will fight together.
Subhanallah.
So this was just an agreement.
That was struck.
And more and more little groups of people.
And little clans were joining.
And more and more areas were joining.
The Muslim forces.
In the meantime.
Something amazing happened.
The Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
Used to have bodyguards around him.
The Sahaba radiallahu anhu.
Did not leave him.
They had bodyguards around him.
So much so that.
Once he speaks about how.
He had such a good sleep.
When Sa'd ibn Abi Waqqas radiallahu anhu.
Was standing guarding him.
Until Allah revealed verses.
Where Allah says.
Oh messenger.
Get up and convey the message.
If you don't do so.
You will not have fulfilled your duty.
And remember Allah will protect you from the people.
When those verses were revealed.
He immediately told those.
Who used to stand around him.
You can go away.
Allah has guaranteed my safety.
My protection.
Subhanallah.
So the hadith in Sahih al-Bukhari.
Making mention of.
Those who used to stand around him.
This was only to the point.
Where the verses were revealed.
When Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala revealed verses.
That I will protect you.
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
Instructed those who used to stand around him.
To leave.
And this is when.
Sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
They knew that he is protected.
By Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Nothing will ever harm him.
Except and until.
The decree of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has worded.
So.
Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam.
At that time.
Verses were revealed to him.
Which were very very important.
Because Quraish.
They had a bad habit.
They began to.
Visit Madina Munawwara quietly.
And they used to try and inculcate.
In the hearts and minds of the people.
That you know this man is like this.
Like that.
And they were causing problems.
On one hand you had.
Ubayy ibn Salool.
Abdullah ibn Ubayy ibn Salool.
He had his group of people.
They were visiting the mu'mineen and the believers.
You know those who had believed.
Newly.
And they were trying to distract them.
And find fault in Islam.
And so on.
And as for the Jewish people.
There was a treaty with them.
But still deep down.
They used to support Ubayy ibn Salool.
Anything that happens.
They would quickly support him.
So that they tried to create problems.
In the midst of the Muslims.
But Allah protected the Muslim.
And then Allah revealed verses.
Up to that stage.
Muslims were not allowed to fight.
Nor retaliate.
No revenge.
And they weren't even allowed to defend.
If someone had usurped their wealth.
They had to just go away.
Up to that point.
There Allah revealed verses.
Permission has been granted.
To those who are being fought.
To defend themselves.
And to revenge and retaliate.
For indeed Allah is all able.
To grant them victory.
These verses brought a smile.
On the faces of the believers.
Their wealth was usurped.
Their properties usurped.
Their people were killed.
They were driven out of their homes.
And the mushrik still did not leave them alone.
They wanted to come to Madina.
To attack them.
Now they were granted permission.
To defend.
And to revenge.
Revenge meaning you were booted out.
You can go back.
And you can boot them out.
And you can take back whatever was taken from you.
Whatever was taken from you, you can take it back.
And at the same time.
Anyone tries to harm you now.
You don't sit back.
You can actually revenge.
Subhanallah.
You can defend yourself.
And that is the right.
It's a common right that we have.
If anyone wants to attack you or me today.
With whatever I have.
I need to stand up and make sure I defend myself.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us protection.
So when these verses were revealed.
Quraysh.
The Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam started.
In an amazing way.
Finding out information.
And getting to know the place.
Getting to know more about Quraysh.
Preparing to attack.
Why preparing to attack?
Very simple.
This attack was not an attack.
To spread Islam.
As people think it was.
No.
It was to go back to Quraysh.
Who killed from amongst us.
And go back to Quraysh.
Who had usurped our wealth.
And our properties.
And driven us out of our own homes.
We need to go back.
And get it.
Because even the wealth that they have.
Is contaminated with ours.
And whatever belonged to us.
Subhanallah.
So anytime there were caravans.
That moved north.
Towards the Syrian region.
What was known as Asham.
It was the right of the Muslims.
To way lay the caravan.
And to take every bit of property.
Because all that belonged to the Muslimin.
It was usurped from them.
Subhanallah.
So this was revenge.
It was retaliation for what you did.
For the last 14 years.
You harmed us.
You attacked us.
You killed us.
You did this.
You did that.
And now we are just allowed to defend.
So Asham started sending little platoons.
And reconnaissance missions.
Of a few of his companions.
And he sent them into different directions.
We want to start off making mention of some of them.
But before I do that.
Fighting came down in four stages.
First.
Only Quraysh were allowed to be fought.
Nobody else.
So at this stage when these verses were revealed.
The Muslims were only allowed to fight Quraysh.
No one else.
Then slightly later.
They were permitted to fight.
Thereafter the Mushriks from amongst the Arabs.
Who fought them.
The Mushriks from amongst the Arabs who fought them.
And thereafter.
Anyone who sided with Quraysh in their war.
Was also fought by the Muslimin.
Even if they were people of the book.
Who broke their treaties with the Muslims.
And the last category.
Those who started war.
Anyone who started fighting.
We were allowed to go back, retaliate.
And at the same time.
We could revenge.
We could fight them preparing an army.
And go back to attack them.
Like for example.
There were instances where.
The messenger of the Prophet ﷺ.
Was harmed and was killed.
He sent a whole army to fight those people.
Why did you kill our messenger?
Who are you?
So you started the war.
Not us.
And this is what happened.
So Rasulullah ﷺ.
The first platoon that he sent.
He was not a part of it.
In Ramadan.
In the first year of Hijra.
He sent.
What is known as Sahriyat Saiful Baha.
Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib was sent with 30 men.
Only to find out information.
To gather intelligence.
The idea was to gather intelligence.
This is what it was.
These people were not warriors as such.
The Muslims were calm people.
But they had to learn.
And they started gathering information.
So when Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib was sent.
Towards a place known as Saiful Baha.
With 30 men.
In order to see and to check.
The caravan of Abu Jahl.
That was returning from Ash-Sham.
That had had 300 strong men.
So now Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib went with 30 men.
As they went.
They got there.
They saw the caravan.
And now the two parties came together.
And obviously two hostile parties.
Coming together face to face.
There was a man known as Majdi ibn Amr.
And he had had a treaty with both sides.
So he got up and he said you know what.
No fighting here.
We don't want to fight.
You people go back.
And you people go back.
We don't want any war.
And any fighting.
So Hamza ibn Abdul Muttalib came back.
To Al-Madeen Al-Munawwara.
And Abu Jahl went safely to Makkah Al-Mukarrama.
But it did something.
He went back to Makkah.
And he was worried.
That these people are brave.
They are powerful.
For the first time they are preparing some retaliation.
So it sent a very strong message.
Although it was mainly to gather a little bit of intelligence.
The first flag that was lifted by the Muslimin.
To see every time there was an army.
They had had a flag.
The flags were mainly white.
So this flag was by Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
Given to Hamza radiallahu anhu.
And he had given it to one of the members of the army.
It was a white flag.
It was a little platoon.
They had gone as we had mentioned.
Just 30 men.
The second little skirmish that took place.
Or we call it a little platoon.
A sariyah.
Something, a small reconnaissance mission.
In order to gather a little bit of intelligence.
It was what known as sariyat rabegh.
Which was also in Shawwal in the same year.
The first year of Hijra.
And the leader was Ubaidah ibn al-Harif radiallahu anhu.
He went with 60 men.
In order to check the caravan of Abu Sufyan.
That was a much bigger caravan.
That was coming with 200 men.
But it had a lot of wealth.
And it had a lot of merchandise.
So the two met.
And they threw spears at each other.
But this one fled.
And the other one came back to Madinah al-Munawwara.
There was no killing as such.
There were just a few spears and arrows.
That had flown from one direction to the other.
And from the other direction to this.
And from Abu Sufyan's little group of people.
Two of them came into the Muslim camp.
And returned to Madinah al-Munawwara.
They were Muslims already.
But they had joined the caravan.
Going on business with the idea.
Of making the Hijra under cover.
You see Hijra was not easy.
So if someone wanted to make Hijra.
It's like sometimes you know we have.
Let me give you a simple example.
Come to my mind now.
You have for example something going on.
A religious function going on some way.
And a person really needs to do a bit of business there.
Or something.
And you find a man saying.
You know what I want to go to the religious function.
He jumps in.
He gets a free lift.
When he goes there.
He's doing something else.
This example was the other way round.
Where these people were going for business.
And the Muslims two of them jumped in with them.
Saying that you know what we're coming.
Not making mention that we want to jump off in Madinah al-Munawwara.
It so happened.
That this platoon had met them.
And they returned with the Muslims.
Subhanallah.
The third little platoon that had gone out.
Sariyat al-Kharrar.
And that was in Dhul-Qi'da.
Of the first year of Hijra.
Sa'd ibn Abi Waqas went with 20 men.
And he had also aimed for the caravan of Quraysh.
Why were they aiming for caravans of Quraysh?
As I said.
Because that wealth was ours.
That wealth was contaminated.
These people stole our wealth.
They had stolen our properties.
They had benefited so much.
They drove us out of our own homes.
Anything we could get hold of belonged to us.
They had fought us.
We need to go back.
So this is why Sa'd ibn Abi Waqas radiallahu anhu went.
And as he got to the place that he had supposed to go.
Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wa sallam told him not to go beyond that.
So when he got there he found out that the caravan has already passed.
So he came back.
But there was another benefit of all these little platoons going out.
They gathered lots of information about the areas.
The places.
They understood the outskirts of Medina.
The path.
The roads.
And they also started gathering how Quraysh move.
The movements.
How much they take when they go.
When they come and so on.
All this was intelligence being gathered.
A lot of benefit by these little platoons that were going out.
We have then the first time that Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam himself went out.
Was in the month of Safar.
In the second year of Hijra.
He went out what was known as Ghazwa.
Ghazwa is like a skirmish or a battle.
It could refer to a battle if there is fighting that takes place.
Sometimes it's just a skirmish.
Because the two armies may not have fought.
Or the two parties may not have actually clashed.
So Ghazwa al-Abuwa.
That's the name of the first group of army men that Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wa sallam went with.
He prepared this army and he walked with them.
He went with them as their leader.
And it was also referred to in some books as Al-Widdan.
Ghazwa al-Widdan.
So al-Abuwa, you hear the name and you also hear the name Widdan.
In Safar, the second year of Hijra.
The Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam took 70 men.
All of them from amongst the Muhajireen.
And he also aimed for Quraysh and the caravan that was coming back.
But he had not met the caravan.
And there was no fighting that took place.
He spent 15 days out.
And he had had a flag that Hamza radiallahu anhu was holding.
And the flag was white.
And when he left Madina Munawwara,
one might ask, who did he leave behind as a leader there?
He left behind Sa'd ibn Ubadah radiallahu anhu the first time he went out.
And that was the first participation of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wa sallam.
No war had taken place.
Then you have the second participation was known as Buwat.
Ghazwat Buwat.
The reason I'm making mention of all this,
many of us think that Badr was the first war.
The reality is no, there were so many skirmishes before that.
And one thing led to another.
And the battle of Badr was only after certain things had happened.
And how did they happen?
We will come to it inshallah in a few moments.
You have Buwat in Rabi' al-Awwal, second year of Hijra.
Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wa sallam went out with 200 men.
And Umayyah ibn Khalaf was coming back from Ash-Sham with 100 men.
But sadly, they had already passed the caravan.
So they learnt a lot.
They went to these areas.
They met the people.
Every time they were coming back.
Like the first one Al-Abuwaa,
when the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam was coming back,
he took a lot of time to visit the tribes,
to visit the people, to meet them, to spread the word.
Some may enter Islam.
But more importantly,
a lot of peace treaties were agreed upon between the parties.
Because what you find when there is peace,
thereafter, Islam spreads.
And in this particular case, there was so much peace.
So many of these little clans and groups
started joining the forces with the Muslimin
and pledging allegiance to them,
especially a peace treaty that was struck between the parties.
Then what had happened is something known as
Ghazwa to Badrin al-Sughra.
The battle of Badr, but the small one, the minor one.
It's not the main battle that we all know.
It was a skirmish in a place known as Safwan.
And this place, what had happened is
the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam in Rabi' al-Awwal
in the second year of Hijra,
went out with 70 men.
And why did he go out?
Very important.
There was a man called Karz ibn Jabir al-Fihri.
He had come in with a few men to Medina Munawwara.
And he went into the farms,
and he stole some of the sheep,
and he stole a little bit of the property,
and he was rushing back.
When he rushed back,
announcement was made in Medina
that this is what happened.
The Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
gathered 70 men,
and he went after this man
in order to retrieve and to get back
what he had stolen from Medina Munawwara.
So this was the reason why he had gone.
And they had gone to this place of Safwan
which was very, very close to Badr.
In fact, it is also called a part of Badr.
And when he got there, subhanallah,
this person had already skirmished,
and he had run away,
and there was nothing much that could have happened.
But the beauty is the area of Badr was already seen.
And everything that happens around it was already known.
So when they went to Badr after that,
they already had known what Badr was all about,
and they were acquainted with a lot of the areas close to Badr.
And then we had a war
where the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
took part in which was known as Dhi al-Ashirah.
And this Dhi al-Ashirah was in Rabi' al-Awwal
in the second year of Hijra.
The Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam,
in fact, they had intended to gather information
of the caravan of Quraysh that was heading north.
And they found that they had missed it.
They calculated when it would return.
This caravan of Abu Sufyan.
And what they did is, on its return,
this is when the major battle took place.
So they calculated, we missed it going up,
but when it comes back, we're going to get it.
Why? Because what it had in it was a lot.
They had a lot of merchandise,
so much that the Muslims did not want to lose out
on what was rightfully theirs, subhanallah.
It was returning what was theirs to them.
So the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
thereafter prepared an army.
And that would be the army
which finally took part in the battle
known as the Battle of Badr,
the main battle that we all know.
But before we get to that particular battle,
there were two or three things
that happened in Medina Munawwara.
One is, before the Battle of Badr,
the direction of the Qibla changed.
So Allah instructed His Messenger sallallahu alaihi wa sallam,
16 months, 16 to 17 months
after he had come to Medina Munawwara,
that we are seeing that you are looking
for the direction in prayer
and we are instructing you
to now face Mecca al-Mukarramah.
So at that juncture, the verses were revealed.
فَوَلِّ وَجَهَكَ شَطُرَ الْمَسْجِدِ الْحَرَامِ
Turn your face towards al-Masjid al-Haram
in Mecca al-Mukarramah.
And the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wa sallam
made the Qibla.
It was almost, if you go to Medina Munawwara,
it's almost 180 degrees.
So it's like a straight line.
If you're facing this way,
you now face the other way.
Almost 180.
So he had made the Mimbar in the other direction.
What happened to the old Mimbar?
That area was given a little bit of a roof
and it was raised slightly
and it was known as al-Suffah.
Al-Suffah meaning an area where the poor
and those who don't have much,
those who don't have a place to go,
all the Muhajireen who were still coming in,
they would actually settle there for a while
and stay and spend a lot of their time in Ibadah
and learning the religion and sacrificing
for the pleasure of Allah.
InshaAllah, we will get to that at some stage,
but this area was known as al-Suffah.
It now became the back of the Masjid,
yet it used to be the front of the Masjid
when the Qibla was in the other direction.
So this is one thing that had happened.
One of the beauties
or one of the beautiful points
of the changing of the Qibla was that
the Muslims wanted to liberate
their own home city of Makkah.
It was their city.
Most of them were born in there.
The Muhajireen, almost all of them,
besides a few, were born in Makkah.
And now they were facing Makkah.
Allah explained to them
the value of this house of Makkah
a four time.
And now they were facing that direction.
How could they face the direction
of a place that is in the hands of their enemies?
So it gave them all the more reason
to want to go and be victorious
in Makkah al-Mukarramah.
You see how Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
made their hearts incline towards going back
and getting whatever belonged to them.
Subhanallah.
So this was one of the reasons
or one of the benefits
of the change of the Qibla.
After that, in the same year in Sha'ban,
fasting was prescribed.
O you who believe,
fasting is prescribed upon you in the same way
it was prescribed upon those before you
in order that you may achieve piety.
Verses were revealed.
And Masha'Allah,
in the month of Ramadan,
they fasted for the first time.
And in the same month of Ramadan,
the battle of Badr took place
in the month of Ramadan.
14 years after being driven out of their homes,
17th of.
In fact, 14 years after revelation
and prophethood,
you now find these people were
given the opportunity to face those
who had persecuted them for so long.
Also, what was made compulsory in the same year
was Sadaqatul Fitr,
what we know when we are
opening our fast
at the end of Ramadan.
And we need to give out
what is known as the Fitr
that was made,
it was prescribed also
in the second year of Hijra.
And Zakah became compulsory
just after the month of Ramadan.
This battle of Badr,
the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
sent Talhah ibn Ubaydillah
and Sa'id ibn Zaid
towards the north,
in order to gather information
of the caravan of Abu Sufyan
that had gone up north.
And these people,
they passed by Abu Sufyan
and they saw him.
So they quickly sent a message
to Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
in Madina Munawwarah,
saying,
this man is on his return,
he is now coming back
with him are forty men,
one thousand camels
and fifty thousand dinars,
which means he has a lot,
Subhanallah.
He has so much
and a lot of merchandise.
So the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
made an announcement
in Madina Munawwarah.
And that announcement was,
who is ready to go out
in order to face Quraysh,
they are coming back
with their caravan
and we are going to face them.
At that particular time,
it was not compulsory
for all of them to go out,
just like they went to face
the previous caravans
where they were not
really very successful.
This was also one of those.
They did not intend
a full-fledged war.
They only intended
to get part of the merchandise
from the caravan
that was returning.
And so you find people
started giving their names
and people were being vetted.
What is the meaning of vetted?
Vetted meaning,
some people are known
that this person's condition is good,
he can come.
Some people,
they had certain matters
that disallowed them
from joining the battle.
One of them was
Uthman ibn Affan,
may Allah be pleased with him.
He was disallowed from joining the battle
because his wife was ill and sick.
The daughter of Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
Ruqayya, may Allah be pleased with her.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
So this was a major battle,
the decisive battle,
the first major battle.
And yet you have the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
telling certain people
that go back and serve your parents.
And certain people go back
and serve your,
meaning look after your family members.
Because that is compulsory
upon you as a person.
And this here,
it's compulsory upon us collectively.
So if some of us go,
the rest of us will not be penalized.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
a deep understanding.
The statement I have made
is very important.
We learn from this
that Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم
had a system in place
from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
And it worked like clockwork.
And it resulted in the fact
that today we are sitting in this masjid.
Subhanallah.
So insha'Allah we will be going through
the Battle of Badr in detail
starting from tomorrow.
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to grant us benefit
until we meet again.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
bless our prophet Muhammad.
Subhanallah, praise be to Allah.
Subhanaka Allahumma, praise be to you.
We bear witness that there is no god but you.
We seek your forgiveness
and repent to you.